[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory, physicist and
licensed professional engineer.
Dr. Tom Valone with us.
He has a PhD in
general engineering
and a masters in physics,
president and founder
of the Integrity
Research Institute,
and author of several books,
including "Zero Point Energy."
Tom, welcome to "Beyond Belief."
>>TOM VALONE: Thank you.
Glad to be here.
>>NOORY: What's new with you?
>>VALONE: Oh my goodness.
The biggest thing I
feel is the discovery
of the new development
on climate change, which
was predicted over 10 years
ago by Dr. Jim Hansen, MIT
climatologist, probably
the world's most famous
climatologist.
>>NOORY: Is he controversial?
>>VALONE: Absolutely.
The Bush administration
tried to censor him.
And he was persecuted
during the years
that that administration
had the White House.
No words like that in
any government report.
>>NOORY: Tom, when we talk
about climate change, what
are we talking about?
>>VALONE: Well, the first graph
is basically a slide showing
his 400,000-year
history of the Earth.
And what he did beyond what
Noah did is not only showing
the carbon dioxide
change over those years--
you can see several ice
ages as a result of this--
but he also superimposed the
temperature and sea level
graphs with the maximum
and minimum matched up.
And all of a sudden, you
see they track each other.
>>NOORY: All right, we'll get
into all this in just a second.
Tell us a little
bit more about you.
How'd you get involved
in studying all this?
>>VALONE: Well, years
ago, I was involved
in pursuing free energy.
And in 1980, I basically
went to Germany
for a conference on
gravity field energy.
And from then on, I
was actually involved
in the polar generator, thinking
that was a free energy device.
I convinced my professor at
the University of Buffalo
to let me do it as a
master's project in physics.
And then I became a celebrity.
Every year I was
going to conferences
and talking about free energy
and was even a consultant
for the "Free Energy,
Race to Zero Point" video.
>>NOORY: Now, when you
talk about free energy,
now to me that means we're
not getting electrical bills
from our electric company.
Is that what you mean?
>>VALONE: Of course.
It's a one-time investment
in some type of device.
And that's some
of the information
we'll be sharing today that
actually involves a device that
then produces energy,
electrical energy,
for as long as the device works.
>>NOORY: They're
not going to want
us to have that, Tom, are they?
It's free.
>>VALONE: Well, I think
it's our manifest destiny,
as they called it years
ago when we were trying
to get to the West coast.
Hey, we used to have free water.
We used to have free air.
And--
>>NOORY: They found a
way to make money on it.
>>VALONE: That's
right, that's right.
>>NOORY: And here we go again.
Climate change is controversial.
People on different
ends of the spectrum
have their own specific
views on whether it's
man-made or natural, maybe
a combination of both.
But why is it so controversial?
>>VALONE: Well, the controversy
is basically the same paradigm
shift that Thomas
Kuhn talked about
in the scientific revolutions
book, "Structure of Scientific
Revolutions."
You see it repeated
over and over again.
Anything analogous,
it tends to be denied.
That's the human reaction.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>VALONE: And Kuhn mapped
that down to the point
where unless a
theory is developed
that's very convincing, people
are still going to dismiss it.
>>NOORY: Now before we get into
the graphics from Jim Hansen,
tell us about him.
>>VALONE: Oh, of course.
Jim Hansen is a soft-spoken,
wonderful genius
who's co-authored
amazing journal
articles on climate change.
But he hasn't reached the
audience that's most important.
And that is the public.
>>NOORY: Why not?
>>VALONE: Well, scientists
are accused of this everywhere
in the world, including,
as people might remember,
in Greece where scientists
were put in jail,
geologists specifically, for
publishing their articles
on the coming earthquake
that they had predicted
and didn't do enough advertising
to convince the public
to go seek shelter.
>>NOORY: So they
blamed them for it.
>>VALONE: Of course.
And they put them
in jail in Greece.
>>NOORY: Sheesh,
are you kidding me?
>>VALONE: I said, hey,
that's what it should be,
because scientists should
be their own spokesperson
and announcers for the type
of important information
that they're presenting.
>>NOORY: Whose fault
was that, then?
I don't think it was the
fault of the scientists
and the climatologists.
It could have been
the media in Greece
that didn't pick up on it.
>>VALONE: Thank you
for saying that,
because it wasn't my words.
It was yours.
And hey, the media obviously
is being blamed left and right
for lots of different reasons.
But in general, we
need more science
to be translated by the media.
>>NOORY: Dr. Jim Hansen
out at Columbia University
created what he has.
It's called the climate graph.
Let's look at some
of these graphs
and you explain to
us, if you would, Tom,
what we're looking at here.
So what is this?
>>VALONE: Well, this
is the first one
that he published in an
obscure journal called "MIT's
Technology Review," 2006.
And when I study this graph,
400,000 years of ice age up
and down temperature, CO2,
and sea level superimposed
so you can see they
actually overlap, to me this
is astonishing, because
no one, I think,
even scientists, have a
formula or an understanding
of why the three of
them are correlated.
They're diverse parts of
the biosphere, of Gaia.
And what's astonishing, as Al
Gore does in the "Inconvenient
Truth" movie, all of a sudden
you see at the very end,
at this time in
2006, it went way up
to 377 parts per million.
Well, the maximum that you see
across the half million years
is only 290 parts per million.
It's varied between 200
and 300 parts per million
for a half million years.
Well, humans or somebody is
pushing that CO2 up to now 408.
>>NOORY: Or somebody.
>>VALONE: Yeah, or somebody.
>>NOORY: Or someone.
>>VALONE: So as you go
to the second graph--
>>NOORY: Let's lay it out.
Let's go to the second
one and see what we have.
>>VALONE: What I did
is I annotated it,
because there was a table
next to that graph that
at least showed the numbers.
And I chided Jim.
I talked to him about this.
I said, this is
exactly what people
need to understand the
graph that you published,
because at the bottom
here is my key.
10 parts per million equal
a half degree C equal
10 meters of sea level rise.
Well, let's forget about
the sea level rise,
because it takes a millennium
or more for that to happen.
>>NOORY: It's very slow.
>>VALONE: Very slow.
So the one I'm concentrating
on is the temperature.
And the temperature you see--
you can even say 20 parts per
million equal one degree--
it's calibrated so you
can actually predict,
as I did 10 years ago, what
the future temperature change
should be within the century.
And as you can see, I'm
annotating five degrees
C at that time just due to
the approximately 400 parts
per million--
>>NOORY: Is that high?
>>VALONE: Five degrees C?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>VALONE: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: It is.
>>VALONE: Nat Geo has a video
saying one or two degrees
is tolerable.
But as you get to
three, four, and five,
we get desertification
of the Midwest.
We get a huge storm
changes, migration.
I mean, you talk about
the migrant problem,
it goes on and on.
Nat Geo says five degrees is
the absolute worst condition.
>>NOORY: Let's look
at our next graph.
>>VALONE: So as you
kind of look at the 2100
deadline for this change of
temperature, all of a sudden
now 10 years later, we
see the best climatologist
in the world,
Stanford University,
Carnegie Institute agreeing
with five degrees C by 2100.
>>NOORY: All right, and
then our last one here.
>>VALONE: And so what I also
was wondering, what happens
past 2100, because guess what?
We're pushing the CO2
level up to 500, 600, 700.
On the right side
of this graph, you
see all the climate models
predicting 600 to 800 parts
per million of just CO2.
>>NOORY: That is high.
>>VALONE: Thank you.
>>VALONE: That's
nice of you to admit.
>>NOORY: How it got
there we can debate.
But that is high.
>>VALONE: Guess what the
studies show in classrooms
when you reach 1,000
parts per million of CO2?
>>NOORY: What might it
have been like, Tom,
60 million years ago--
>>VALONE: 50.
>>NOORY: --with the dinosaurs?
>>VALONE: 50 million years ago.
It turns out the Eocene Epoch
was 800 parts per million
as well.
>>NOORY: All right,
what caused that?
We didn't have man.
We didn't have machines.
We didn't have industry.
>>VALONE: That's right.
There was something
happening to the climate that
caused it to go way up in 800.
But what I'm interested
in is the temperature
was also 15 degrees C
higher than the present.
We're not talking five.
We're talking 15.
>>NOORY: That's huge.
>>VALONE: Absolutely.
If we reach 800 by 2100--
>>NOORY: What do you
think is happening now?
>>VALONE: --we're
going to be a hothouse.
And guess what the
Eocene Epoch had?
Alligators in the Arctic.
>>NOORY: Are you saying
that this is an earth cycle?
>>VALONE: No.
I'm saying this is artificially
avoiding the next ice age that
should be happening right now.
As you can see from
the first graph,
the temperature is going
down, down, down and starting
to go up a little bit.
But the important thing is
we were actually at the point
where it should have been
starting to decrease.
And instead we've heated
up the atmosphere so
tremendously with CO2
obviously, heat-trapping gas,
that we're avoiding the ice
age, which is good news.
But we're over-driving it.
>>NOORY: How do you recommend
we get that temperature
level down?
>>VALONE: We have to invent and
rediscover CO2 sequestration.
>>NOORY: What is that?
>>VALONE: There is a number of
technologies that our institute
actually advocates every month
in our Future Energy eNews,
which is free at our website,
Integrity-Research.org.
And you can basically see that
universities and scientists
have already not only come up
with iron seeding of the oceans
to get plankton to absorb
millions of tons of CO2,
but there's also special types
of concrete that absorb CO2.
There's types of technologies
that actually bury it
in rock so that it's
actually reformed
into a concrete-type substance.
There's buildings, building
materials that absorb CO2.
So we need all of that
into the billion ton range.
And even director and
CEO of Virgin Galactic
was interested in offering
$10 million prize.
Well, that's not enough to
accomplish a billion ton--
>>NOORY: No.
>>VALONE: --of sequestration.
>>NOORY: That's a start.
But it's not a lot.
What got you interested in
the possibility that humans
are contributing to this?
What did you see personally,
Tom, to make you feel that way?
>>VALONE: Well,
actually the pollution
that fossil fuels cause
I felt was serious enough
to be concerned about.
I'm sensitive to air pollution.
Indoor air pollution bothers me.
I used colloidal
silver nose sprays.
I use ozone generators
to sanitize the air.
Indoor air can be worse
than outdoor air sometimes.
>>NOORY: Of course.
Of course.
>>VALONE: But I also
was aware of the fact
that if you study
Carl Jung psychology,
that the archetype of fossil
fuels is macabre and morbid.
You're dealing with
a dead symbol that
should remain in the ground.
And instead we're
digging it up as if we're
some type of Halloween
type of figure
and trying to revivify it
to make it more energetic.
This is a whole misuse of
nature's and Gaia's resources.
Instead, the free
energy movement,
which is now
bearing fruit, shows
that there's energy available
from the quantum vacuum--
clean, pure, light
type of energy
that is totally different
in symbolic form
than the dead, morbid type
of energy we're using now.
>>NOORY: Well,
there's no question
that we should be using
different kinds of fuels
on this planet.
>>VALONE: Do we even need fuel?
This is the question.
And this has been our problem
from the past 100 years,
thinking that fuel
was our only resource.
Well, Nikola Tesla lectured
us very seriously about it.
If we continue to use
fuel as a resource,
the coming generations
will actually suffer.
>>NOORY: Stanford University's
Doctor Mark Jacobson
talks about 139
countries that he
says by 2050 could be
using renewable systems.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>MARK JACOBSON:
We think that it's
possible to address all of
global carbon and air pollution
problems simultaneously
by transitioning
every single country and
state to 100% clean, renewable
energy, particularly wind,
water, and solar power.
We calculate 22 million new jobs
worldwide by such a transition.
Onshore and offshore wind;
solar photovoltaics on rooftops
and in power plants;
utility scale solar;
photovoltaics;
also utility scale
concentrated solar power
and then geothermal power;
existing, not new
hydroelectric power;
and tiny amounts of
tidal wave power.
We find for each
country of the world
that we tested that
it's possible to power
each country entirely by
wind, water, and solar.
Electricity is much more
efficient than burning things.
For example, take
a gasoline car.
Gasoline car, only 17% to 20%
of the energy in the gasoline
goes to move the car.
And the rest is waste heat.
If you have an electric
car, of the electricity that
goes into the car in starting
batteries, 80% to 86%
goes to move the car.
So we reduce significantly
over 60%, 70% the energy
need in transportation.
When you average
over all sectors,
there is about a 32%
reduction in energy demand
due to this efficiency.
And then we can squeeze
out another about 7%
in use energy efficiency
improvements beyond that.
So we get about 39% reduction of
power demand over all sectors.
So the problem with wind
and solar, for example,
is the wind doesn't always
blow, the sun doesn't shine.
So the concern has been that
the grid will be unstable.
You'll have high cost
to keep it stable
if we go to large-scale
wind, water, and solar power.
But it turns out
this is not the case.
It's actually the opposite.
>>AMORY LOVINS: In
2014, more than a fourth
of Germany's
electricity consumption
was renewable and about half in
four other European countries
with modest or no hydropower.
None of them added bulk storage.
All of them sustained high
reliability for Denmark
and Germany, about 10 times
better than America's.
>>JACOBSON: The actual
demand is variable itself.
So baseload power doesn't
really mean anything,
because you always, even
today and historically, you've
always needed some kind of
peaking to fill in the gap.
So like nuclear power,
which provides baseload,
does not help you actually
match power demand.
Coal, which is
primarily baseload,
does not help you
meet the peaks.
It just gives you some flat,
underlying amount of energy.
But we found that by
electrifying all sectors--
so that's transportation,
heating and cooling industry
in addition to electricity--
it actually makes it easier
to match power demand
at a cost of about 10
and a half to 10.6 cents
per kilowatt hour, which
is similar to the energy
cost of a fossil fuel system.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: So it can be done.
>>VALONE: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: It can be done.
Well, why aren't we doing it?
>>VALONE: Well,
Mark Jacobson has
received a lot of
criticism, saying
that it would be too expensive.
Various countries he's named
are actually resistant.
Poland, for example,
is loving the fact
they can get cheap
coal in their homes.
And the pollution,
they don't care about.
So it's changing
mindset to even be
concerned about air pollution
and, of course, climate change.
>>NOORY: I don't think I'd like
a coal furnace in my house.
>>VALONE: No, but
the Polish people--
>>NOORY: Would you?
>>VALONE: --seem
to be used to it.
And there's many
other countries that
burn very dirty types of fuel.
And of course, even
a solar converter,
like in India and Africa, is
a wonderful new innovation
to them.
>>NOORY: When you started
thinking about free energy, how
old were you?
When did that start?
Were you a kid?
>>VALONE: Pretty much.
I was actually in college
at the time, a grad student
and in my 20s, looking for a
master's project that I felt,
I want to do something that
I would be interested in
rather than wait for the
professor to tell me.
In one case, I was
offered a PhD thesis
on the distribution
of utility generators
throughout the country.
Whoop-de-doos.
I'm not going to be able to talk
about my PhD thesis after that.
So that's why I investigated
"Sunburst, Return
of the Ancients"
by Norman Paulsen.
And I went out to
their community.
You saw this, quote unquote,
"free energy generator,"
Bruce DePalma's device,
and thought, hey,
I may be able to test this
for a master's project.
And luckily I
convinced my professor
to let me do that for
a master in physics.
>>NOORY: What are
your thoughts, Tom,
that every household would
have some kind of free energy
device attached to it?
>>VALONE: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Not hooked
into the grid?
>>VALONE: Absolutely.
Having stand-alone power is the
only answer to climate change.
And really this is the kind of
self-sustaining type of future
that human race needs for all
the dangerous storms we've
been receiving.
Just a few years ago, we
had 200 tornadoes in one day
throughout the Midwest.
Popular Science this month
actually shows the map
of all those 200 tornadoes.
>>NOORY: Power lines down.
It was a mess.
>>VALONE: You name it.
Yes.
And of course hurricanes
are getting worse.
I mean, we don't need that.
But we're going to
be experiencing it
all throughout the century.
Even each generation will
see worsening conditions.
So the first step
is Mark Jacobson
says to go ahead with
the clean energy first.
Renewable energy has to be a
mandate for all the countries,
including unfortunately
the carbon
tax that was just voted
out of being instituted
in a Western state recently.
Eventually we'll
have to face facts
and say, yes, it's about time
we stopped emitting carbon.
Carbon dioxide is a pollutant.
And we didn't ever
know, I don't think,
that the Earth was that
temperature sensitive to CO2
levels.
>>NOORY: You and I
differ a little bit
on how we got to this point.
>>VALONE: Yes.
>>NOORY: But we agree
on certain things.
For example, I don't think we
should be polluting the planet.
>>VALONE: Thank you.
>>NOORY: And we're
doing that in a big way.
I'm a believer in the
abiotic oil theory.
I don't think our oil is from
plants and dead dinosaurs.
But I do believe that we
shouldn't be burning it
and to get into a
different source.
So though we may disagree on
certain aspects of climate
change, we do agree
on the fact that we
need to do something about it.
And it's there.
What would it cost to
have a device like that
attached to your house, to
have your own power system?
>>VALONE: Well, the
cost is probably
something that's still in the
gray zone of possibilities.
>>NOORY: Meaning it's
too high right now?
>>VALONE: Yes, yes.
And in fact, I can equate
it to, for example,
the backup natural gas
generators that are available.
We have power outages even in
the Maryland area, Washington
DC area every so often.
And people often experience
that even with storms.
You not only have the
damage from the hurricane,
but you also lose power
for any number of weeks.
So backup generators
are a solution,
running on natural gas.
But you'll spend at
least $10,000 or more
to get that type of
generator as a alternative.
>>NOORY: That cost will
come down though, won't it,
dramatically?
>>VALONE: Sure, and--
>>NOORY: Or maybe it will be
$1,000 or something like that.
>>VALONE: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: How would it work?
>>VALONE: Well, what
we're now seeing finally--
and I'm looking at
almost 30 years later
from when I started in 1980--
to actually see the
first presentation
that's very solid in terms
of the evidence behind it
for the Arthur Manelas device.
And that was presented
by Brian Ahern, Dr. Brian
Ahern at our last conference
on future energy, the 10th one
we had during the summer.
FutureEnergy.org is our website
for all our consciences.
And what was surprising about
that is the Manelas device
works on strontium
ferrite billet,
nanocrystalline
strontium ferrite billet,
which has crystal sizes
less than 10 nanometers.
>>NOORY: That small?
>>VALONE: Yes.
And what Dr. Ahern
discovered, because he
worked in the cold
fusion area that's always
been a problematic area
to research-- he said,
the only successful
cold fusion devices,
which is called LENR,
low-energy nuclear reactions,
is the 10 nanometer or
less palladium crystals,
for example.
And Arata was one
of the doctors who
were successful in getting
excess heat generation.
Well, the Manelas device
produces excess electricity
even after 25 miles of running--
>>NOORY: That's a good thing.
>>VALONE: --several weeks.
Absolutely.
The voltage goes up on
the billet in the battery,
because the billet is inside
the battery, and it gets cooler.
>>NOORY: Dr. Mark
Jacobson thinks
that we should be
doing all electricity.
>>VALONE: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Is it doable?
>>VALONE: Yes.
From what his research proves
and what other climatologists
and renewable
energy experts say,
we can be running on 100%
free renewable energy
if we choose to.
>>NOORY: Of course, the
genius about free energy
was Nikola Tesla.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> At the turn of the last
century, Nikola Tesla,
the great inventor who
gave us alternating current
and the Tesla coil, stated--
>> Electric power is
ever present in unlimited
quantities.
It can drive the
world's machinery
without the need of coal,
oil, gas, or any other fuel.
This new power for the driving
of the world's machinery
will be derived from
the energy which
operates the universe,
the cosmic energy.
>> With over 200
patents to his name,
Tesla was well on his way to
transmitting electric power
without wires when he ran
into trouble with JP Morgan
and the financial
interest of 1901.
His ambitious
Wardenclyffe project
to magnify and transmit
power to ships at sea
and eventually to provide free
electricity for the whole world
was scuttled by Morgan,
leaving Tesla penniless
and disillusioned.
The wealthy
industrialists of the time
knew that their vast plans
to wire the world with copper
from the mines they
owned would be upset
if they could no longer
control the supply
and means of delivery.
Tesla's beliefs about
developing technology
in harmony with
nature conflicted
with the prevailing American
attitude at the time
that mankind was put on Earth
to subdue and dominate nature.
Little by little, Tesla
was denounced as a crackpot
and deleted from the
historical record.
At the time of
his death in 1943,
Tesla's truckloads
of scientific papers
were seized by US
government agencies.
Who knows what ideas and
remarkable devices our world
could have inherited if only
his genius was recognized?
>>VALONE: When JP
Morgan prohibited Tesla
from broadcasting
electric power overseas
with Wardenclyffe
Tower, he said, I
can't put a meter on it.
Therefore, I won't finance it.
That literally changed
the course of history.
And for the past
almost 100 years,
we've been suffering
under that profit motive.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Who was that
guy with that beard?
>>VALONE: That was
me back in 1994.
And since then,
two books came out.
I edited "Harnessing
the Wheelwork of Nature"
and "Nikola Tesla's
Electricity Unplugged."
>>NOORY: Tesla got involved
with the wrong people.
>>VALONE: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: They squashed
him, didn't they?
>>VALONE: Absolutely.
Even Westinghouse
let him tear up
the contract which could have
made him a multimillionaire
and never replaced
it with anything
to at least substantiate his
genius and his worthiness.
>>NOORY: So they
couldn't figure out,
how were they going
to make money off
of this, because the direction
they wanted to go into
was charging everybody
like they do today.
>>VALONE: Absolutely.
We're suffering under that
paradigm that they invented,
the JP Morgan umbilical
cord, I call it.
>>NOORY: Can we realistically,
Tom, break that?
>>VALONE: Yes.
>>NOORY: You think so?
>>VALONE: And that's what my
latest book, "Nikola Tesla's
Electricity Unplugged,"
is all about.
I have the best Tesla
wireless articles,
including Dr. Jim Corum's
latest one on the Zenneck wave.
And this is surprising,
because Corum's discovery
is that not only is there an
atmospheric earth atmosphere
cavity that resonates throughout
the earth to transmit power
if you use a Wardenclyffe
Tower-type antenna,
but also the earth
itself becomes
a medium for transmitting
the same reflected power.
>>NOORY: Back in 1999, you
tried to have a free energy
conference.
What happened?
>>VALONE: Oh my goodness.
Well, it turns out, I
was at the patent office.
I was employee as
a patent examiner.
And I essentially was
invited by a friend of mine
at the State Department, US
State Department open forum.
And it was great, because I
actually titled it, Conference
on Free Energy and thought,
oh, this is a great chance
to finally bring it out.
It's been a decade,
actually two decades
since I pursued free energy.
I thought the time was right.
Turns out I was totally wrong.
>>NOORY: Well, you were
right about the timing.
They thought you
were wrong, right?
>>VALONE: Exactly.
The back ledge.
>>NOORY: What did they do?
>>VALONE: Oh my goodness.
Well, first of all, the
American Physical Society
pounced on me every week
by calling it a cold fusion
conference.
But I only had one cold fusion
speaker out of 14 presenters
on new renewable energy and
invented patented energy.
So it turns out
Dr. Zimmerman, who
was the only physicist
at the State Department,
became my nemesis,
along with Dr. Park,
who was from the University
Maryland Public Relations
department.
And the two of them were just
too much for the patent office,
the Department of Commerce,
and the Department of Energy.
So I literally then
became a media frenzy
with a Nature Magazine article,
Science Magazine article,
APS News, Village Voice.
They all basically told my
story of this patent examiner
is trying to do something,
but it's totally unscientific
and, quote, "pseudoscience."
So I got fired from
the patent office.
>>NOORY: From that.
>>VALONE: For misrepresentation
and conflict of interest.
It was laughable
at the time now.
But back then, it was traumatic,
because even as I approached
the Department of Commerce,
they said, oh why don't you
go to commerce?
You worked there.
They'll give you the chance
to use the auditorium.
No, not really.
>>NOORY: Did they
set you up, Tom?
>>VALONE: Well, it was
certainly a difficult situation
that couldn't be resolved
with anything that I
wanted to present, because
the timing was wrong.
That's all I can say.
And so even as I changed the
name quickly to Conference
on Future Energy and
pursued that from then on,
I still had to go to a
hotel to have the conference
and, of course, spent six years
trying to get my job back,
which I did.
>>NOORY: Was it
frustrating for you?
>>VALONE: Oh, absolutely.
It was traumatic.
But you know, it's
like Dr. Robert Becker,
who was a colleague of
mine and a friend of mine.
When he got fired
for similar reasons,
doing electrotherapy
at a hospital,
he literally then wrote the
book, "The Body Electric."
And I've heard medical doctors
say, if he hadn't got fired,
that book would never
have been written,
and electrotherapy
would never be known.
Well, I pursued my
PhD when I got fired.
And luckily I then
accomplished and finished it
within the time frame.
>>NOORY: So you were
better off eventually.
>>VALONE: Exactly.
>>NOORY: Who knew then, though?
>>VALONE: I know.
My blessing in
disguise, I would say.
>>NOORY: Zero-point energy.
You wrote a book on that.
>>VALONE: And it was
my thesis topic, yes.
>>NOORY: What is your
definition of zero-point energy?
>>VALONE: Well,
zero-point energy
is like the waves
on top of the ocean.
And literally it's
the fluctuations
that you see in the quantum
vacuum everywhere manifest,
not only in electrons
that are pushed away
from the nucleus when
they're oppositely charged
and should be
attracting each other,
but the quantum vacuum
keeps them apart.
And you see, for example,
liquid helium never
freezing even as it gets within
micro degrees of absolute zero.
Zero-point energy is
manifested in many places.
And it's an indication that
we have negative energy, see,
as Paul Dirac said, that's
full of positron electron pairs
just waiting to jump
out and give us energy.
>>NOORY: What's it
going to take, Tom,
to get us in that direction?
>>VALONE: Well, it turns
out the Manelas device
seems to be a very good
breakthrough start.
And of course more
research needs to be done.
Our institute is advocating
Brian Ahern's research
and doing fundraising
for that purpose.
And it's really going to take
some risk-taking donations
to let people like Dr. Ahern
pursue a research project that
at least has evidence that
it could be successful.
>>NOORY: Can you get
somebody like Jeff Bezos
from Amazon to back
something like this?
Would he be interested in that?
>>VALONE: Well--
>>NOORY: Or would he
say, how am I going to--
like JP Morgan, how am I going
to make money doing this?
>>VALONE: Well,
that's their problem.
For example, there is what's
called stealth marketing.
And I've heard experts in
the field talk about this,
that when you finally do, say,
have a device that works--
and we have evidence that
there's already nanocrystalline
device on the market--
that basically you don't tell
people that this is over unity.
I've seen a few devices
already manifest that
and successfully marketed
with no indication
that you're getting a little bit
extra than you thought you were
going to when you bought it.
And that's a good
formula for marketing
so that it doesn't create
the waves and the backlash.
It's called raising the shadow
in Carl Jung psychology.
>>NOORY: What is
bioelectromagnetics, Tom?
>>VALONE: Well,
bioelectromagnetics
is Nikola Tesla's discovery
that the body is essentially
the same as capacitors.
He called them condensers.
And it's a charge
storage medium.
Every cell in the
body has a membrane
that's capable of storing
10 million volts per meter
or 100,000 volts per centimeter.
Now, 10 million volts
across a meter is huge.
It would spark to the
ground immediately.
>>NOORY: Oh, sure.
>>VALONE: But our cells know how
to insulate that and store it
as a capacitor, a
charge storage medium.
And it turns out in
biophysics, the body
can only store energy two ways--
chemical gradients or
electrical gradients.
>>NOORY: There are
companies developing
pulsed electromagnetic
field therapy.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> Curatron delivers pulsed
electromagnetic fields that
stimulate the body to work
at its optimum capacity.
The ruler effect is
eliminated, because blood
is positively charged
and can flow freely,
absorbing and delivering
more oxygen and nutrients
to the cells and
removing toxins.
The mitochondria operate
at an optimum level
in an aerobic environment.
Enriched with oxygen, they
are capable of creating
38 ATP for each molecule
of sugar that is digested.
The blood cells fuel the
body for cell activity
with optimum efficiency.
Brain activity, physical
activity, healing activity all
takes place at a greater
level because of PEMF.
Because it benefits the
body at a cellular level,
there are many different
applications for PEMF--
athletic performance
enhancement,
injury healing and pain
therapy, anti-aging,
increasing energy, disease
prevention and recovery.
PEMF stimulates the
natural endorphins
providing effective
pain therapy,
reducing or eliminating the
need for toxic narcotics.
Effective pain relief is seen
for arthritis and joint pain,
fibromyalgia, back pain,
and ankylosing spondylitis.
Because of Curatron's
powerful penetration
of up to 160,000 microtesla,
it has the ability
to penetrate deep
within the skull
and treat the brain
with energy medicine.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: That's pretty dramatic,
Tom, if that's all true.
Is it?
>>VALONE: 95% of that is true.
The very end of it is
actually dangerous,
because when you get into
the millitesla range,
which is what the
numbers he quoted are,
you're actually starting to get
to the-- and it's in my book,
"Bioelectromagnetic Healing"--
specifically called
electroporation.
Our PEMF devices that
our institute actually
markets on the
BioEnergyDevice.org website
is essentially designed after
Dr. Glen Gordon's discovery.
And that is that the nanosecond
rise time of the pulse in PEMF
is more important than
the height of the pulse.
They're talking about
Oh, huge micro-- very
strong magnetic field.
Well, you don't need
strong magnetic fields
to have all the benefits
he talked about.
In fact, Dr. Gordon discovered
that the nanosecond rise
time stimulates what's called
HSP or heat shock protein.
And heat shock
protein is amazing.
We've seen it, for
example, even my wife who
bumped her tibia
on a metal chair,
thinking literally it was
so painful that it's going
to be black and blue, swell up.
Well, instead of ice, I
grabbed our EM pulser,
about 20 minutes.
No scarring.
No--
>>NOORY: Nothing.
>>VALONE: --black and blue.
Nothing.
And this is exactly what
Dr. Gordon predicted.
We've seen our clients say so.
But to see it
personally happen where
heat shock protein prevents the
inflammation, it's wonderful.
It's a great
alternative to drugs.
>>NOORY: I wouldn't want
to bombard my brain what
that thing, thought.
Is that part of the thing you
said we need to be careful
about?
>>VALONE: Exactly.
You're getting to the
electroshock treatment range
at that point.
Instead, it's very
good to consider
pulsed magnetic fields--
PEMF, in other words--
for any part of the body,
because you will get lots
of benefits, including
the anti-inflammation
and the helpful healing
and restoration of tissue.
>>NOORY: Remember the
"Star Trek" episodes
where the doctor had this
wand which kind of like,
he waved over people.
Are we talking about
stuff like that?
>>VALONE: Yes.
Yes, exactly.
And you'll see in
a video we supply,
speaking of your injury, Dr.
Gordon's lecture on this topic.
He describes moving
the EM pulser,
or he called it
empulse at the time,
over the area to
treat a larger area.
>>NOORY: What is it
about the human body that
reacts to this kind of
electromagnetic stimulus?
>>VALONE: Well, it's
literally "The Body Electric"
that Dr. Becker described in
his book and I do in my book.
But the exciting thing
is that, as I pointed out
what Nikola Tesla
discovered, every cell loves
to have high-voltage charge.
And even if it isn't high
voltage, but it's electrons.
See, my discovery
along with another
of Dr. Oschman's discovery
is that electrons
are antioxidants.
So instead of popping pills
that give you the extra electron
that quench free radicals,
because free radical damage
associated with aging is
basically unpaired molecules
that are seeking electrons.
And they keep stealing
it from other tissues.
You can have a chain
reaction, for example,
if you take a shower
without a shower filter,
because chlorine disassociates
in warm water body temperature.
And you're rapidly
aging that way.
So it's important to
consider antioxidants.
But electrons provided by PEMF
or any other electrotherapy
device gives you
electrons directly.
And you can feel pain relief,
for example, by putting--
>>NOORY: Pretty
fast too, can't you?
>>VALONE: Absolutely.
That's why we thought of
offering you and sending
you a premier junior
high-voltage device, a little
Tesla coil that you
can hold in your hand.
>>NOORY: Would it work?
>>VALONE: Absolutely,
it works if you--
>>NOORY: I'll try it out.
>>VALONE: OK.
Yeah--
>>NOORY: I'll try it out.
>>VALONE: --you'd enjoy it.
And it lights up.
You can feel the sparking.
But more importantly,
it transmits not only
the high voltage
so you can light
a compound fluorescent light
bulb in the other hand,
but you can also feel the
penetration of electrons
deep within the tissues.
>>NOORY: My father, God rest
his soul, back 50 years ago
had a light device that he
used to rub all over his-- it
was like an infrared thing.
But he'd rub it all over his
legs and stuff like that.
Maybe he was ahead
of his time, huh?
>>VALONE: He was.
In fact, now we market that as a
ATP turbo device or a turbo LED
array it's called.
And the turbo LED is
essentially called
that, because when you
get to the right frequency
of infrared, you actually
then turbo charge
the ATP of the cells.
>>NOORY: What's going to
come first, Tom, in terms
of mass application?
The ability for our homes to be
self-powered or these healing
mechanisms?
What's going to happen?
>>VALONE: Well, we feel
our institute is devoted
to three-prong attack--
energy, propulsion,
bioenergetics.
And if we approach all
three simultaneously,
we can then maybe solve
the world's problems
and ameliorate some of
the worst conditions
that we see in human life.
>>NOORY: What will it take for
somebody or some government
to say, we like what these
people are talking about,
let's do it?
>>VALONE: Well, obviously
in any situation
in either of the energy
propulsion or bioenergetics
arena, it needs major funding.
And certainly there are
programs and projects
that we've engaged in
to essentially address
those issues.
For example, we've funded
some propulsion projects
at our conference.
We have two fellows, Mike
Gamble who retired from Boeing,
who's developing electrical--
it's a gyroscopic motion device
that's been used on the ISS.
And no one knew it, because
Boeing kept it proprietary.
So there's lots of
solutions out there.
And of course, maybe the black
project people knew about it
and know about it.
But it's time for the
civilian population
to start using
these technologies.
>>NOORY: Tell us about
the Hutchison effect.
>>VALONE: Well, you know,
as we get to the seriousness
of the later-century conditions,
we might want to consider
the fact that humans have
more power bio-energetically--
>>NOORY: Within ourselves.
>>VALONE: --within ourselves
than we ever thought possible.
Well, our effort
in that regard has
been to publish a book by George
Hathaway, professional engineer
from Canada, called
"Mindbending."
And the "Mindbending"
book is tremendous,
because what George did as
a very physical scientist,
he investigated John
Hutchison for years, looked
at his anomalous stuff that's
in this "Free Energy, Race
to Zero Point" video,
so bending of metals
and levitating objects.
>>NOORY: And John was
way ahead of his time.
>>VALONE: John seemed to
be way ahead of his time.
For years, people
thought, oh, it
must be the Tesla
coil and Van de Graaff
combination of this
electrical circuit
that nobody can figure out.
Well, it turns out it only
worked when John was there.
And it turns out that John
has this ability called
psychokinesis, which
George delineates very
well in "Mindbending" to show
that the high voltage seems
to amplify the PK effect.
And we've seen this
in Puharich's work,
"Beyond Telepathy."
He also witnessed it.
>>NOORY: This is exciting.
I mean, the field you're in,
Tom, is pretty dramatic--
>>VALONE: Hey, Jack Houck--
>>NOORY: --once
we get through it.
>>VALONE: --was a metal bender.
And he was a famous
guy for teaching people
how to bend spoons and so forth.
>>NOORY: Uri Geller.
>>VALONE: And Uri Geller.
>>NOORY: Same thing.
>>VALONE: Sure, same principle.
>>NOORY: I just had
Uri on "Coast to Coast"
a couple of weeks ago.
>>VALONE: See?
>>NOORY: I think
he's the real deal.
>>VALONE: Absolutely.
You can go on and on.
Wim Hof, for example.
The Wim Hof method's
being taught,
how to survive in absolute cold,
freezing, subzero temperatures.
And we get to the
point where, hey, this
is a show called
"Beyond Belief," right?
People can live without food.
>>NOORY: Oh really?
>>VALONE: I knew you'd
be a little surprised.
>>NOORY: Now, tell
me about that.
Talk about that
as a diet, right?
>>VALONE: Well, the
best way to start
from this unbelievable
"Beyond Belief"
subject, and this I feel is a
very important solution to not
only the climate
problem, because we're
going to have mass starvation
soon, but also Mars.
Why go to Mars thinking
you're going to grow food
right away when you can train
the astronauts to live in three
weeks, 21-day program,
live with a process
that converts the body into
the bioenergetic quantum vacuum
converter that we're
intended to be.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>VALONE: Hey--
>>NOORY: You still need
water though, right?
>>VALONE: Perhaps, perhaps.
But I'll tell you, what
happens with Prahlad Jani.
Prahlad Jani is a
yogi in India who's
been studied very well by
medical doctors, isolated
for a couple of weeks in
a medical hospital room
under 24-hour guards,
cameras, and everything.
>>NOORY: Oh, that's the person
who doesn't eat or drink,
right?
>>VALONE: Or drink.
And what's interesting
about the phenomenon, which
I've experienced with Norman
Paulsen's physiology as well,
is that it ends up creating
this very strange they call it
elixir that flows down
the back of the throat.
It's a fatty liquid substance.
Who knows how it's generated?
But the human body is
capable of doing this.
Prahlad Jani in the video
actually puts his hand
in the mouth and offers
it to the reporter.
>>NOORY: Let's take
a look at this guy,
because this is fascinating
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> Could this man hold the
key to survival under extreme
conditions?
Prahlad Jani has been
described as a hermit who
claims to have wandered
around India's jungles
from the age of
eight and not eaten
or drunk anything
for nearly 70 years.
His claims are now
being put to the test.
A key Indian medical
institute is observing him
in a private hospital in
the Western state of Gujarat
with already
astonishing results.
>> We are all watching a miracle
in the science of biology,
so to say, because he's
already 108 hours since
Mataji's admission
into this hospital.
And he has not eaten anything.
He has not drank a little
drop of any kind of liquid.
But more importantly,
he has not passed
a drop of urine or stool.
>> The hospital has said
that initial tests have shown
the man has a brain resembling
that of a 25-year-old and that
Yogic exercise has meant his
body has undergone a biological
transformation.
Studying him could allow
scientists and doctors
to understand better how to
survive without food or water
for long periods, perhaps even
help in exploring the universe.
>> India is now proposing
to have missions to moon,
manned mission to moon, and
in the long run to Mars also.
So how people can survive?
This strategy, if
you understand how
people are surviving
without food and water,
that may help us in
working out strategies
for making people to live
without food or water
for longer duration.
>> Jani will be under
observation for a total of 15
days.
He claims he was given the
gift by the Hindu goddess Amba
and that he nourishes himself
with small amounts of nectar
passing through his head.
A miracle man,
India's medical world
now looks to answer
that very question.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: That is weird.
>>VALONE: Well, actually
you know more than anybody
that most of the ET stories
and craft recoveries
seem to show that there's
no restroom in a UFO.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>VALONE: And the
Greys at least have
small mouths and small noses.
>>NOORY: Maybe they have
gotten to that point.
>>VALONE: Absolutely.
I firmly believe that.
And it's been, from
what I've seen in,
for example, the book by
Dr. Michael Werner called
"Life from Light" and
also the book by Ray Maor,
"A Year Without Food."
Both of those books
are showing a roadmap
for people who are willing
to take that conversion.
And you can always go back to
eating food or drinking water
if you wish.
And that's what they say.
And the worst thing about it--
guess what-- the
social pressure.
>>NOORY: Restaurants
aren't going to like this.
>>VALONE: Family.
Maor says he lost
all his friends.
In fact, there's a wonderful
video online describing--
>>NOORY: Food brings
people together, Tom.
>>VALONE: Absolutely.
And if you don't eat--
>>NOORY: If you're not eating--
>>VALONE: --you're alienating
all your family and friends.
>>NOORY: --it's gone.
Strange.
When do you think we see a lot
of this stuff put into society?
>>VALONE: Well, you
know, from my research,
I've also found
that Exodus 16 shows
that the Israelites probably
experienced the same thing.
And they called it
manna, because you're
in the desert for a few weeks--
>>NOORY: The gift of manna.
>>VALONE: --with no
food or no water,
you're doing that progressive
bioconversion to yourself.
And of course they're describing
it coming from heaven,
coming from above,
because it goes down
the back of the throat
from somewhere above.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
Tom, thanks for being
on "Beyond Belief."
Really appreciate it.
>>VALONE: I'm glad to be here.
>>NOORY: Isn't it amazing?
One day we may have little
power units that power
our houses or apartments.
We may be able to go
without food and drink.
If that day ever comes,
it'll be very strange.
I'm George Noory.
And thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]